---
layout: post
title: Bitboin & aml. Proposal of EC.
img: http://www.assob.it/img/chain-257492_1280.jpg
bgimg: /img/post-bg.jpg
membro: di chi si parla
ruolo: Membro AssoB.it
---
[//]: # "Scrivere qui  sotto un summary del post"
Bitcoin & AML: Proposal of the European Commission. 


The European Commission has published on 05.07.2016 the Proposal for a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Directive (EU) 2015/849 on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purposes of money laundering or terrorist financing and amending Directive 2009/101/EC.

The proposal was discussed during the first part of 2016, with stakeholders and European Commission Institutions and contains a definition of virtual currencies and the prevision of some entities as obliged to the AML rules.

The analysis leads to identify some qualified actors as relevant for the AML procedure to trace and identify the point of contact between fiat and virtual currencies.

The proportionality and the search to avoid stifling innovation motivated the European Commission in proposing to amend Directive 2015/849 obliging providers of exchange services between virtual currencies and fiat currencies (currencies declared to be legal tender) as well as custodian wallet providers for virtual currencies to AML provisions.

The Exchangers are clearly defined — new letter (g) in in point (3) of Article 2(1) — as providers engaged primarily and professionally in exchange services between virtual currencies and fiat currencies.

The providers obliged are the actors that act primarily (that means as relevant activity) and professionally (that means with an organization) in exchanging virtual currencies as trader.

Under this perspective and basing on the analysis of ECB Virtual currency schemes — a further analysis, the difference between providers is:

7) Exchanges offer trading services to users by quoting the exchange rates by which the exchange will buy/sell virtual currency against the main currencies (US dollar, renmimbi, yen, euro) or against other virtual currencies. These actors, most of them non-financial companies, can be either issuer-affiliated or a third party. They generally accept a wide range of payment options, including cash, credit transfers and payments with other virtual currencies. Moreover, some exchanges also provide statistics (e.g. volumes traded and volatility), act as wallet providers and offer (immediate) conversion services for merchants who accept VCS as an alternative payment method.

8) Trading platforms function as marketplaces, bringing together buyers and sellers of virtual currencies by providing them with a platform on which they can offer and bid among themselves. In contrast to exchanges, however, the trading platforms do not engage in the buying and selling themselves. Some trading platforms, such as www.localbitcoins.com, give their customers the option of locating potential customers nearby.




The proposal takes into consideration that the financial privacy could be exposed at high risks with user identification, because wallets and transaction are public by default, with anybody that can easily access to these data without any restrictions.

In fact, in the explanatory note the Commission highlights that:

“The inclusion of virtual exchange platforms and custodian wallet providers will not entirely address the issue of anonymity attached to virtual currency transactions, as a large part of the virtual currency environment will remain anonymous because users can also transact without exchange platforms or custodian wallet providers”.




The whereas considers that To combat the risks related to the anonymity, national Financial Intelligence Units (FIUs) should be able to associate virtual currency addresses to the identity of the owner of virtual currencies.
<!-- more -->
[//]: # "Scrivere qui  sotto il post in markdown"

